Manual Testing 
Module 1: Testing concepts (Theory) What?
Module 2: Testing project (Practical) How?
Module 3: Agile process - Jira

Software

A software is a collection of computer programs that helps us to perform a task.

Types of software:
  1. System software
     Ex: Device drivers, Operating Systems, Servers, Utilities, etc.
  2.Programming software
     Ex: compilers, debuggers, interpreters, etc.
  3. Application software
     Ex: Web Applications, Mobile Apps, Desktop Applications, etc.
     
X Bank (Company) --> IT Company --> Develop --> Test --> Deliver --> X Bank

What is software Testing?
Software testing is  a part of software development process.
Software testing is an activity to detect and identify the defects in the software.	
The objective of testing is to release quality product to the client.

Software Quality
Bug-free.
Delivered on Time.
Within budget.
Meets requirements and/or expectations.
Maintainable.


Project vs Product
If software application is developed for specific customer based on the requirement(provided by the customer/client) then it is called Project.
If software application is developed for multiple customers based on market requirements then it is called Product.

Error, Bug/defect & Failure-
Error - human error
Bug/defect - not working as expected
Failure - 

Why the software has bugs?
Miscommunication or no communication
Software complexity
Programming errors
Changing requirements 
Lack of skilled testers


SDLC - Software Development Life Cycle

Software Development Life Cycle is a process used by software industry to design, develop and test softwares.

P - People
P - Process
P - Product

Phases of SDLC
1. Requirement Analysis
2. Design
3. Development
4. Testing
5. Maintenance

Waterfall model

Requirement Analysis
System Design
Implementation
Testing
Deployment
Maintenance

Advantages of Waterfall model

1. Quality of the product will be good.
2. Since the requirement changes are not allowed, chances of finding bugs will be less.
3. Initial investment is less since the testers are hired at the later stages.
4. Preferred for small projects where requirements are freezed.

Disadvantages of Waterfall model

1. Requirement changes are not allowed.
2. If there is defect in the requirement that will be continued in the later phases.
3. Total investment is more as time taking for rework on defects is time consuming which leads to high investment.
4. Testing will start only after coding.



Spiral Model

Planning (Requirement Analysis) -> Risk Analysis (Prototype) -> Engineering & Execution (Development & Testing) -> Evaluation (Customer Evaluation) -> Release first version
Planning (Requirement Analysis) -> Risk Analysis (Prototype) -> Engineering & Execution (Development & Testing) -> Evaluation (Customer Evaluation) -> Release second version
and so on...

Spiral Model is iterative model.
Spiral Model overcome drawbacks of Waterfall model.
We follow spiral model whenever there is a dependency on the modules.
In every cycle new software will be released to customer.
Software will be released in multiple versions. So it is also called version control model.

Advantages of Spiral Model

Testing is done in every cycle, before going to the next cycle.
Customer will get to use the software for every module.
Requirement changes are allowed after every cycle before going to the next cycle.

Disadvantages of Spiral Model

Requirement changes are not allowed in between the cycle.
Every cycle of spiral model looks like waterfall model.
There is no testing in requirement & design phase.


Prototype -- blue print of the software 
initial requirements from the customer --> prototype --> Customer -> Design -> Coding -> Testing -> Deliver

V Model // VV Model -- Verification and Validation


BRS/CRS/URS - Business Requirement Specification,  Customer Requirement Specification,  User Requirement Specification  (BU - Business Unit people will be involved)
User Acceptance Testing - UAT 

SRS - Software Requirement Specifications  (PM - Project Manager / Product Manager)
System Testing 


HLD - High Level Design  & LLD - Low Level Design (Designers)
Integration Testing

Coding
Unit Testing	


Verification / Validation

I. Verification checks weather we are building the right product.
   Focus on documentation.

   Static testing

   Testing the project related documents is called as static testing.

   Review
   Walkthrough
   Inspection
   These 3 are testing techniques to verify the documents.


II. Validation checks whether we are building the product right.
    Takes place after verifications are completed.
    Focus on software.

    Dynamic testing

    Testing the actual software.

    Unit testing.
    Integration testing.
    System testing.
    	



Advantages of V Model 

Testing is involved in each and every phase.

Disadvantages of V Model 

Documentation is more.
Initial investment is more.

Static testing techniques
1. Review
2. Walkthrough
3. Inspection

Dynamic testing techniques
1. Unit testing
2. Integration testing
3. System testing
4. UAT

Review
Conducts on the documents to ensure correctness and completeness

Types of reviews
Requirement reviews
Design reviews
Code reviews
Test plan reviews
Test cases reviews, etc

Walkthrough
It is a informal review.
Author reads the documents or code and discuss with peers.
Its not pre-planned and can be done whenever required.
Also walkthrough does not have the minutes of the meet.

Inspection
Its a most formal review type.
In which atLeast 3-8 people will sit  in the meeting 1-reader, 2-writer, 3-moderator plus concerned.
Inspection will have a proper schedule which will be intimated via email to the concerned developer/tester.


QA vs QC
QA is process related.
QA is involved in every phase of the SDLC lifecycle.
QA focuses on building in quality.
QA is preventing defects.
QA is process oriented.
QA is for entire SDLC lifecycle.

QC is the actual testing of the software.
QC is involved only in the Testing phase of the SDLC lifecycle.
QC focuses for testing in quality.
QC is detecting defects.
QC is product oriented.
QC is only for the testing phase of SDLC.


QE- Quality Engineering
QE writes the code but for testing the software. Automation Testers comes under this category.


P - People -> QC (Testers)
P - Process -> QA (Business)
P - Product

SDLC
Requirement Analysis
Design
Coding
Testing
Deployment
Maintainance


Levels of Testing
 Unit Testing
 Integration Testing
 System Testing
 User Acceptance Testing - UAT

I. Unit Testing
A unit is a single component or module of a software.
Unit testing conducts on a single program or single module.
Unit testing is a white box testing technique.
Unit testing is conducted by the developers.

Unit testing techniques -
 Basic path testing - all the written code must be tested
 Control structure testing
  Conditional coverage - all the conditional blocks must be tested (all the ifs and else)
  Loop coverage - all the edge cased for the loop must be tested
 Mutation testing - testing the code with multiple set of data
 
 
II. Integration Testing
Integration testing is performed between 2 or more modules.
Integration testing focuses on checking data communication between multiple modules.
Integration testing is white box testing techniques.

Types of integration testing

1. Increamental integration testing 
Increamentally adding the modules and testing the data flow between the modules.
Two approaches- 
i. Top down
Incrementally adding the modules and testing the data flow between the modules. And Ensure the module added is the child of previous module.
ii. Bottoms up
Incrementally adding the modules and testing the data flow between the modules. And ensure the module added is the parent of the previous module.

Sandwitch/Hybrid approach
Combination of top down and bottoms up approach is called sandwitch approach.

2. Non-increamental integration testing
Adding all the modules in a single shot and test the data flow between modules.

Drawbacks:
i. We might miss data flow between some of the modules.
ii. If we find any defect we cant understand the root cause of the defect.


III. System Testing
Testing overall functionality of the application with respective client requirements.
It is a black box testing techniques.
This testing is conducted by testing team.
After completion of component and integration level testings we start System testing.
Before conducting system testing we should know the customer requirements.
System testing focuses on below aspects.
 User Interface Testing (GUI)
 Functional Testing
 Non-functional Testing
 Usability Testing
 
 
IV. User Acceptance Testing UAT 

After completion of system testing UAT team conducts acceptance testing in two levels.
Alpha testing 
Beta testing


System Testing - VIMP (Detailed)

System Testing Types
GUI Testing
Usability Testing
Functional Testing
Non-Functional Testing

1. GUI Testing
Graphical User Interface Testing or GUI testing is a process of testing the user interface of an application.
A graphical user interface includes all the elements such as menus, checkbox, buttons, colors, fonts, sizes, icons, content, and images.

GUI Testing Checklist
Testing the size, position, width, height of the elements.
Testing of the error messages that are getting displayed.
Testing the different sections of the screen.
Testing of the font whether it is readable or not.
Testing of the screen in the different resolutions with the help of zooming in and zooming out.
Testing the alignment of the texts and other elements like icons, buttons, etc are in proper place or not.
Testing the colors of the font.
Testing whether the image has good clarity or not.
Testing the alignment of the images.
Testing of the spelling.
The user must not get frustrated while using the system interface.
Testing whether the interface is attractive or not.
Testing of the scrollbars according to the size of the page if any.
Testing of the disabled fields if any.
Testing of the size of the images.
Testing of the heading whether it is properly aligned or not.
Testing of the color of the hyperlink.
Testing UI elements like button, textbox, textarea, checkbox, radio buttons, dropdowns, links, etc. 

NOTE: Never assume the functionality yourself. Always refer the design documents.

2. Usability Testing
During this testing we validates application provided context sensative help or not to the user.
Checks how easily the end users are able understand and operate the application is called usability testing.

3. Functional Testing
Functionality is nothing but behaviour of application.
Functional testing talks about how your feature should work.

i. Object Properties Testing
Check the properties of objects present on the application.
Ex. enable, disable, visible, focus, etc

ii. Database Testing/backend testing
Checking database operation with respect to user operations.
DML(Data Manipulation Language) Operations (CURD - insert, update, select, delete)
Gray box testing technique

Table level validations (Column type, column length, number of columns..)
Relation between the tables (Normalisation)
Functions
Procedures
Triggers
Indexes
Views
etc..

iii. Error handling testing
Tester verify the error messages while performing incorrect actions on the application.
Error messages should be readable.
User understandable/ simple language.

iv. Calculations/Manipulations Testing
Tester should verify the calculations.

v. Links Existence & Links Execution - (only for web applications)
Links Existence - Where exactly the links are placed.
Links Execution - Links are navigating to proper page or not.
There are 3 types of Links
Internal Links - When I click on this link I will moved to another section on the same page. 
External Links - When I click on this link I will navigate to some other page.
Broken Links - Links are there but doesn't navigate to anywhere.

vi. Cookies & Sessions - (only for web applications)
Cookies are temporary files created by Browser while browsing the pages through internet.
Sessions are time slots created by the server. Session will be expired after some time(if you are idle for some time).



4.  Non-Functional Testing

i. Performance Testing - speed of the application
 a. Load Testing - Gradually increasing the load on the application and then check the speed of the application.
 b. Stress Testing - Suddenly increase/decrease the load on the application and then check the speed of the application.
 c. Volume Testing - Check how much data application is able to handle.

ii. Security Testing - How secure our application
 a. Authentication - users are valid or not
 b. Authorization(Access control) - permissions of the valid users

iii. Recovery Testing - Check the system recover from abnormal to normal state.

iv. Compatibility Testing - 
 a. Forward Compatibility - Should work on the never versions of windows/linux/mac
 b. Backward Compatibility - Should work on the previous versions of windows/linux/mac
 c. Hardward Compatibility - Configuration testing

v. Configuration Testing

vi. Installation Testing
Check installation screens are clear to understand or not. 
Simple or not. 
Uninstallation should be simple.

vii. Sanitization/Garbage Testing
If any application provides extra features or functionality then we consider them as bug.

Functional vs Non-Functional Testing 
 
Functional Testing
i. Validates functionality of Software.
ii. Functionality describes what software does.
iii. Concentrates on user requirement.
iv. Functional testing takes places before non-functional testing.

Non-Functional Testing
i. Verify the performance, security, reliability of the software.
ii. Non-functionality describes how software works.
iii. Concentrates on user expectations.
iv. Non-functional testing performed after finishing functional testing.



Software Testing Terminologies

1. Regression Testing
Testing conducts on modified build to make sure there will not be impact on existing functionality because of changes like adding/deleting/modifying features.

Types of Regression Testing

i. Unit regression testing
Testing only the changes/modifications done by the developer on the particular unit/module.

ii. Regional regression testing
Testing the modified module along with the impacted module.
Impact analysis meeting conducts to identify impacted modules with QA & Dev.

iii. Full Regression testing
Testing the main feature & remaining part of the application.
Ex. Dev has done changes in many modules, instead of identifying impacted modules, we perform one round of full regression.

2. Re-Testing
Whenever the developer fixed a bug, tester will test the bug fix is called Re-testing.
Tester close the bug if it worked otherwise re-open and send it back to the developer.
To ensure that the defects which were found and posted in the earlier build were fixed or not in the current build.
Example: 
Build 1.0 was released. Test team found some defects(Defect Id 1.0.1, 1.0.3) and posted
Build 1.1 was released, now testing the defects 1.0.1 and 1.0.3 in this build is called re-testing.

Re-Testing vs Regression Testing
An application under test has three modules namely admin, purchase, finance.
Finance module depends on purchase module.
If a tester found bug on purchase module and posted. 
Once a bug is fixed, the tester need to do re-testing to verify whether the bug related to the purchase is fixed or not and also tester needs to do Regression Testing to test the Finance module which depends on the Purchase module.

3. Smoke vs Sanity Testing
Smoke and Sanity Testing comes into the picture after the build release .

i. Smoke Testing
Smoke test is done to make sure the build we recieved from the development team is testable/stable or not.
Smoke testing is performed by both developers and testers.
Smoke testing build maybe either stable or unstable.
It is done on initial builds.
It is part of basic testing.
Usually it is done every time there is a new build release.


ii. Sanity Testing
Sanity test is done during the release phase to check for the main functionality of the application without going deeper.
Sanity testing is performed by testers alone.
Sanity testing,  build is relatively stable.
It is done on stable builds.
It is part of regression testing.
It is planned when there is no enough time to do in-depth testing.

If smoke and sanity testing fails then the tester will reject the build from the developer for further testing.
Smoke testing is conducted first on the build by either developers or testers or both.
Only the shallow features are tested in smoke testing.
Usually these are done on the unstable build.

Once the smoke testing is passed and the build becomes more stable only then sanity testing comes into picture.
Sanity testing checks the deeper features.

4. Random testings

i. Exploratory Testing
We have to explore the application, understand completely and test it.
Understand the application, identify all possible scenarios, document it then use it for testing.
We do exploratory testing when the application is ready but there is no requirements document.
Test Engineer will do exploratory testing when there is no requirements document.

Drawbacks: 
You might misunderstood any feature as a bug (or) any bug as a feature since you do not have requirements document.
Time consuming.
If there is any bug in application, you will never know about it.


ii. Adhoc Testing
Testing application randomly without any test cases or any buisiness requirement document.
Adhoc testing is an informal testing type with an aim to break the system.
Tester should have knowledge of application even thou he doesn't have requirements/test cases.
This testing is usually an unplanned activity.


iii. Monkey/Gorilla Testing
Testing application randomly without any test cases or any business requriement document.
Adhoc testing is an informal testing type with an aim to break the system.
Tester do not have knowledge of application.
Suitable for gaming applications.

AdhocTesting vs MonkeyTesting vs Exploratory Testing

AdhocTesting
 No Documentation
 No plan
 Informal testing
 Random testing
 Tester should know application functionality
 Intention is to break the application/find out corner defects
 Any applications

MonkeyTesting
 No Documentation
 No plan
 Informal testing
 Random testing
 Testers doesn't know application functionality
 Intention is to break the application/find out corner defects
 Gaming applications

Exploratory Testing
 No Documentation
 No plan
 Informal testing
 Random testing
 Testers doesn't know application functionality
 Intention is to learn or explore functionality of application
 Any applications which is new to tester


5. Positive Testing and Negative Testing

Positive Testing
Testing the application with valid inputs is called as Positive testing.
It checks whether an application behaves as expected with positive inputs.
For ex. Enter only numbers : 99999
Positive testing
There is a text box in an application which can accept only numbers. Entering values upto 99999 will be acceptable by the system and any other values apart from this should not be acceptable. 
To do positive testing, set the valid input values from 0 to 99999 and check whether the system is accepting the values.

Negative Testing
Testing the application with invalid inputs is called as Negative Testing.
It checks whether an application behaves as expected with the negative inputs.
For ex. Enter only numbers: adga
Negative testing
Negative testing can be performed by entering characters A to Z or from a to z.
Either software system should not accept the values or else it should throw an error message for these invalid data inputs.

Positive vs Negative Test Cases
Requirement: 
For example if a textbox is listed as  a feature and in FRS it is mentioned as Textbox accepts 6-20 characters and only alphabets.
Positive Test Cases:
Textbox accepts 6 characters.
Textbox accepts upto 20 characters length.
Textbox accepts any value in between 6-20 chars length.
Textbox accepts all alphabets.
Negative Test Cases:
Textbox should not accept less than 6 chars.
Textbox should not accept more than 20 chars.
Textbox should not accept special characters.
Textbox should not accept numerical.

5. End to End Testing
Testing the overall functionalities of the system including the data integration among all the modules is called end to end testing.

Login -> Add Customer -> Edit Customer -> Delete Customer -> Logout

6. Globalization and Localization Testing
Globalization Testing
Performed to ensure the system or software application can run in any cultural or local environment.
Different aspects of the software application are tested to ensure that it supports every language and different attributes.
It tests the different currency formats, mobile number formats and address formats are supported by the application.
For example, Facebook.com supports many of the languages and it can be accessed by the people of different countries. Hence it is globalized product.

Localization Testing
Performed to check system or software application for a specific geographical and cultural environment.
Localized product only supports the specific kind of language and is usable only in specific region.
It tests the specific currency format, mobile number format and address format is working properly or not.
For example, Baidu.com supports only the Chinese language and can be accessed only by people of few countries. Hence it is a localized product.

Test Design Techniques

Test design techniques helps to design better cases.
Reduce the number of test cases to be executed.
Test Data Design Techniques: 
 1. Equivalance Class Partitioning (ECP)
 2. Boundary Values Analysis (BVA)
 3. Decision Table Based Testing
 4. State Transition
 5. Error Guessing
 
 
test design technique is used to prepare data for testing
1. Reduce the Data
2. More Coverage

Test Data Design Techniques: 

1. Equivalance Class Partitioning (ECP)
 
 value check
 classify/divide/partition the data into multiple classes
 
 Partition data into various classes and we can select data according to class then test. It reduce the number of test cases and saves time for testing.
 
 Case 1
 Enter a Number: ____ *Allow digits from 1-500
 
 Normal test data: 	1,2,3,4,5.....500
 
 Divide values into Equivalence Classes
 -100 to 0 -> -50 (Invalid)
 1 - 100 -> 30 (Valid)
 101 - 200 -> 160 (Valid)
 201 - 300 ->  250 (Valid)
 301 - 400 -> 320 (Valid)
 401 - 500 -> 450 (Valid)
 501 - 600 -> 550 (Invalid)
 
 Test Data using ECP:  -50, 60, 160, 250, 320, 450, 550
 
 Case 2
 Name: ______ *Allow only alphabets
 
 Divide values into Equivalence Classes		Test Data using ECP
 A..Z -> (Valid)                                XYZ
 a..z -> (Valid)				zyz
 Special Characters -> (Invalid)		@#$%
 Spaces -> (Invalid)				Xy z
 Numbers  -> 320 (Invalid)			1234
 
 
2. Boundary Values Analysis (BVA)
boundary of the values
min-1, min, min+1       max-1, max, max+1

BVA technique is used to check Boundaries of the input
Enter a age: __ *Allow Digits from 18 - 35

min-1, min, min+1		max-1, max, max+`1
  17,   18, 19			  34,   35,  36
fail, pass, pass		pass, pass, fail


Input domain testing
The value will be verified in the text box/input fields.
We use ECP & BVA techniques.

3. Decision Table Based Testing
If we have more number of conditions/actions then we use decision table technique.

Decision Table is also called as Cause-Effect Table.
This technique is used if we have more conditions and corresponding actions.
In Decision table technique, we deal with combination of inputs.
To identify the test cases with decision table, we consider conditions and actions.
Example
Take an example of transfering money online to an account which is already added and approved.
Here the conditions to transfer money are -
 Account already approved.
 OTP(one time password) matched.
 Sufficient money in the account.
And the actions performed are - 
 Transfer money.
 Show a message as insufficient amount
 Block the transaction inCase of suspicious transaction
 
									TC1	TC2	TC3	TC4	TC5
Condition1	Account already approved				TRUE	TRUE	TRUE	TRUE	FALSE	
Condition2	OTP Matched						TRUE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	X
Condition3	Sufficient money in the account				TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	X
Action1		Transfer Money						Execute
Action2		Show message 'Insufficient Amount'				Execute		
Action3		Block the transaction in case of Suspicious Transaction			Execute	Execute	X


4. State Transition

In State Transition technique changes in input conditions change the state of the application.
This testing technique allow the tester to test the behaviour of an AUT.
The tester can perform this action by entering various input conditions in a sequence.
In State Transition technique, the testing team provides positive as well as negative input test values for evaluating the system behviour.

Example
Take an example of login page of an application which locks the user name after three wrong attempts of password.

State 	Login 			Correct Password Incorrect Password
S1	First Attempt		S4			S2
S2	Second Attempt		S4			S3
S3	Third Attempt		S4			S5
S4	Home page		
S5	Display a message as
	"Account locked, please consult Administratior"


5. Error Guessing
Error guessing is one of the testing techniques used to find bugs in a software application based on testers prior experience.
In error guessing we don't follow any specific rules.
It depends on Testers Analytical skills and experience.
Some of the examples are
 Submitting a form without entering values.
 Entering invalid values such as entering alphabets in the numberic fields.
 
SDLC - Software Development Life Cycle
Requirement Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment, Maintanance

STLC - Software Testing Life Cycle
1. Requirement Analysis
2. Test Planning
3. Test Case Development
4. Environment Setup
5. Test Execution
6. Test Cycle Closure


Test Plan Contents
A Test plan is a document that describes the test scope, test strategy, objectives, schedules, deliverables and resources required to perform testing for software product.

Test plan template contents
 Overview
 Scope
  Inclusions
  Test Environments
  Exclusions
 Test Strategy
 Defect Reporting Procedures
 Roles/Responsiblities
 Test Schedule
 Test Deliverables
 Pricing
 Entry and Exit Criteria
 Suspension and Resumption Criteria 
 Tools
 Risks and Mitigations
 Approvals

Use Case, Test Scenario & Test Case

Use Case
 Use case describes the requirement.
 Use case contains three items.
  Actor, which is the user, which can be a single person or a group of people, interacting with a process.
  Action, which is to reach the final outcome.
  Goal/Outcome which is successful user outcome.
  
Test Scenario
 A possible are to be tested (What to test)
Test Case
 Step by step actions to be performed to validate functionality of AUT - Application Under Test(How to test)
 Test case contains test steps, executed result and actual result.
 
 
 Sample Use Case
 
 Library User -> Register book loan, Register book return, Query book availabilility 
                Register book loan, Register book return, Query book availabilility, Add new book  <- Librarian
                
Use Case vs Test Case
Use Case - Describes functional requirement, prepared by Business Analyst(BA).
Test Case - Describes Test Steps/Procedure, prepared by Test Engineer.

Test Scenario vs Test Case
Test Scenario is `What to be tested` and Test Case is `How to be tested`
Example
Test Scenario: Checking the functionality of login button
 TC1: Click the button without entering user name and password
 TC2: Click the button only entering user name
 TC3: Click the button while entering wrong user name and wrong password
 
Test Suite
Test Suite is a group of test cases which belongs to same category.

		Test Suite 1 -> Test case 1, Test case 2, Test case 3, ... Test case n
test plan  -> 	Test Suite 2 -> Test case 1, Test case 2
		Test Suite 3 -> Test case 1, Test case 2, Test case 3
		
What is Test Case?(How to test)
A Test Case is a set of actions executed to validate particular feature or functionality of your software application.

Test Case Contents
 Test Case Id
 Test Case Title 
 Description
 Pre-condition
 Priority(P0,P1,P2,P3) - order
 Requirement id
 Steps/Actions
 Expected Results
 Actual Results
 Test data
 
 
Requirement Traceability Matrix

What is RTM (Requirment Traceability Matrix)?
RTM describes the mapping of Requirements with the Test cases.
The main purpose of RTM is to see that all test cases are covered so that no functionality should miss while doing Software testing.
Requirement Traceability Matrix - Parameters include
 Requirement id
 Requirement description
 Test case ID's
 
Test Environment

Test Environment is a platform specially build for test case execution on the software product.
It is created by integrating the required software and hardware along with proper network configurations.
Test environment simulates production/real time environment.
Another name of test environment is Test Bed.

Test Execution

During this phase test team will carry out the testing based on the test plans and the test cases prepared.

Entry Criteria - Test cases, Test data & Test plan

Activities - 
 Test cases are executed based on the test planning.
 Status of test cases are marked, like passed, failed, blocked, run and others.
 All the blocked and failed test cases are assigned bug ids.
 Resting once the defects are fixed.
 Defects are tracked till closure.

Deliverables - Provides defect and test case execution report with completed results.

Guidelines for Text Execution

The build being deployed to the QA environment is the most important part of the test execution cycle.
Test execution is done in Quality Assurance (QA) environment.
Test execution happens in multiple cycles.
Test execution phases consists Executing the test cases + test scripts(if automation) 


Defects / Bugs

Any mismatched functionality found in an application is called as Defect/Bug/Issue.
During Test Execution Test engineers are reporting mismatches as defects to developers through template or using tools.
Defect Reporting Tools
 Clear Quest
 DevTrack
 Jira
 Quality Center
 Bug Jill, etc


Defect Report Contents

Defect id - Unique identification number for the defect.
Defect description - Detailed description of the defect including information about the module in which defect was found.
Version - Version of the application in which defect was found.
Steps - Detailed steps along with screenshots with which the developer can reproduce the defects
Date Raised - Date when the defect is raised
Reference - where you provide reference to the documents like requirements, design, architecture or maybe even screenshots of the error to help understand the defect
Detected By - Name/id of the tester who raised the defect
Status - Status of the defect, more on this later
Fixed By - Name/id of the developer who fixed it 
Date Closed - Date when the defect is closed
Severity - It describes the impact of the defect on the application
Priority - It is related to defect fixing urgency. Severity Priority could be high/medium/low based on the impact urgency at which the defect should be fixed respectively

Defect Classification

Defect Categorization

Severity	Priority

Blocker		P1
Critical	P2
Major		P3
Minor

Defect Severity

Severity describes the seriousness of the defect and how much impact on business workflow.
Defect severity can be classified into four class
i. Blocker(Show Stopper) - This defect indicates nothing can proceed further.
 Ex. Application crashed, login not worked
ii. Critical - The main/basic functionality is not working. Customer business workflow is broken. They cannot proceed further.
 Ex. Fund transfer is not working in net banking
 Ex. Ordering product in ecommerce application is not working
iii. Major - It caused some undesirable behaviour, but the feature/application is still functional.
 Ex. After sending email there is no confirm message
 Ex. After booking cab there is no confirmation
iv. Minor - It wont cause any major break down of the system
 Ex. Look and feel issues, spellings, alignments.
 
Defect Priority

Priority describes the importance of defect.
Defect priority states the order in which a defect should be fixed.
Defect priority can be categorized into three class
 i. P0(high) - The defect must be resolved immediately as it affects the system severely and cannot be used until fixed. 
 ii. P1(medium) - It can wait unit a new version/builds is created.
 iii. P2(low) - Developer can fix it in later releases.
 
 
More Examples...

Low priority - low severity : A spelling mistake in a page not frequently navigated by users.
			    : Any cosmetic or spelling issues which is within a paragraph or in the page.

Low priority - high severity : Application crashing in some very corner case.
			     : A web page not found when user clicks on a link (user does not visit that page generally) 

High priority - low severity : Slight change in logo color or spelling mistake in company name.

High priority - high severity : Issue with login functionality (user is not able to login to the application)

 
Defect Resolution
After recieving the defect report from the testing team, development team conduct a review meeting to fix defects. Then they send a resolution type to the testing team for further communication.
Resolution types
 Accept
 Reject
 Duplicate
 Enhancement
 Need more information
 Not Reproducable
 Fixed
 As Designed
 
 
 
Bug Life Cycle


Test Cycle Closure
Activities
 Evaluate cycle completion criteria based on Time, Test coverage, Cost, Software, Critical Business Objectives, Quality
 Prepare test metrics based on the above parameters.
 Document the learning out of the project.
 Prepare test summary report.
 Qualitative and quantitative reporting of quality of the work product to the customer.
 Test result analysis to find out the defect distribution by type and severity.
Deliverables
 Test Closure report
 Test metrics
 
Test metrics

SNO 	Data Required
1	No of Requirements
2	Avg No of Test Cases written Per Requirement	
3	Total No of Test Cases written for all Requirement
4	Total No of test cases executed
5	No of test cases passed
6	No of test cases failed
7	No of test cases blocked
8	No of test cases un executed
9	Total No of defects identified
10	Critical defects count
11	High defects count
12	Medium defects count
13	Low defects count
14	Customer defects
15	No of defects found in UAT

Test Metrics

% of test cases executed = (No of test cases executed/Total No of test cases written)*100
% of test cases not executed = (No of test cases not executed/Total No of test cases written)*100
% of test cases passed = (No of test cases passed/Total test cases executed)*100
% of test cases failed = (No of test cases failed/Total test cases executed)*100
% of test cases blocked = (No of test cases blocked/Total test cases executed)*100

Defect Metrics

Number of defects identified per requirements = Defect density =  No of defects found/Size(no of requirements)
Defect removal Effeciency = DRE = (A/A+B)*100
 A = Defects identified during testing/Fixed Defects
 B = Defects identified by the Customers/Missed Defects
Defect Leakage = (No of defects found in UAT/No of defects found in testing)*100
Defect Rejection Ratio = (No of defect rejected/Total no of defects raised)*100
Defect Age = Fixed date - Reported date
Customer Satisfaction = No of complaints per period of time

QA/Testing Activities
 Understanding the requirements and functional specifications of the application.
 Identifying required Test Scenarios.
 Designing Test cases to validate application.
 Setting up test environment(Test Bed)
 Execute test cases to valid application
 Log Test results(how many test cases pass or fail)
 Defect reporting and tracking
 Retest fixed defects of previous build
 Perform various types of testing in application.
 Reports to test lead about the status of assigned tasks.
 Participated in regular team meetings.
 Creating automation scripts.
 Provides recommendation on whether or not the application/system is ready for production.
 



7 Principles of Software Testing

1. Start software testing at early stages. Means from the beginning when you get the requirements.
2. Test the software inorder to find the defects.
3. Highly impossible to give the bug free software to the customer.
4. Should not do exhaustive testing. Means we should not use same type of data for testing every time.
5. Testing is context based. Means decide what type of testing should be conducted based on type of application.
6. We should follow the concept of Pesticide Paradox. Means, if you are executing same test cases for longer run, they wont be able to find any defects. We have to keep updating test cases in every cycle/release inorder to find more defects.
7. We should follow defect clustering. Means some of the modules contains most of the defects. By experience, we can identify such risky modules. 80% of the problems are found in 20% of the modules.
